What is ECMAscript?

ECMAScript is a scripting language specification on which Javascript is based.
It serves as a guidelines or rules for the scripting language design

ECMAScript versions - ES5, ES6

What is Javascript?

It is a scripting language that confirms the ECMAScript specifications. It is the most widely known and used implementation
of ECMAScript

Javascript includes additional features that are not part of ECMAScript specification, like the DOM manipulation which is not defined
by ECMAScript

NodeJS - Some backend things is added to Javascript


What is Bun?

NodeJS is slow. JS runtime is re-writtened for Backend and  introduced Bun


NodeJS is predominately used to create HTTP Server.

What is HTTP server?

A protocol that is defined for machines to communicate.
It is the most common way for your website's frontend to talk to your backend.

Protocal - Whenever people meet, they know that they are supposed to talk to each other

How to frontend talks to backend? Wires/Routers

What is HTTP Server?

Some code that follows HTTP protocol and is able to communicate with clients


client throws some information at the server.
Server does something with that information
Server responding back with final result

HTTP Client side - 
Protocal - HTTP
Adress - URL, IP, PORT
Route
Headers, Body, Query params
Method

HTTP Server side - 
Response Headers
Response body
Status codes

https://chat.openai.com/backend-api/conversation

https - protocol
chat.openai.com - URL
backend-api/conversation - Route
Header - Cookie (Has authentication information)
Body - What is 2+2 (Actually JSON)
Method - POST

Response Header
Response Body - 2+2 Equals 4
Status code - 200

Interview question - 

What happens after you type google.com and give enter?

Browser parses the URL
Does the DNS lookup (Converts google.com to an IP)
Established a connection to the IP (does a handshake)

What is DNS resolution?

URLS are just like contacts in your phone
In the end, they map to an IP
If you ever buy a url of your own, you will need to point it to the IP of your server.

Things that happen on your server after request is recieved - 

You get the inputs route, body, header
You do some logic on the input, calculate the output
You return the output body, headers and status code

Common Methods - 

GET
POST
PUT
DELETE


Status Codes - 

200 - Everything is Ok
404 - Page not found
403 - Authentication issues
500 - Internal Server Error


